.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd October 31, 2021
.Dt WHAT 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm what
.Nd "identify SCCS keyword strings in files"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl qs
.Op Fl -debug
.Op Fl -help|-?
.Op Fl -version
.Op Fl -
.Op Ar
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility searches each specified
.Ar file
for sequences of the form
.Dq Li @(#)
as inserted by the
.Tn SCCS
source code control system.
It prints the remainder
of the string following this marker, up to a NUL character, newline, double
quote,
.Ql \&>
character, or backslash.
.Ss OPTIONS
The following options are available:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl q
Only output the match text, rather than formatting it
.It Fl s
Stop searching each file after the first match
.It Fl -debug
Enable debug mode
.Pp
.It Fl -help|-?
Print usage and this help message and exit
.Pp
.It Fl -version
Print version and exit
.Pp
.It Fl -
Options processing terminator
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The
.Ev WHAT_DEBUG
environment variable can be set to any value to enable debug mode.
.Pp
The
.Ev FLAVOUR
or
.Ev WHAT_FLAVOUR
environment variables can be set to one of the following values,
to implement only the corresponding options and behaviours.
.Bl -bullet
.It
posix : POSIX what
.It
bsd | bsd:freebsd : FreeBSD what(1)
.It
linux : Linux what(1P)
.El
.Pp
However, if the
.Ev POSIXLY_CORRECT
environment variable is set to any value, then the POSIX flavour will be selected.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
Exit status is 0 if any matches were found, otherwise 1.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ident 1 ,
.Xr strings 1
.Sh STANDARDS
The
.Nm
utility is a standard UNIX/POSIX command.
.Pp
It conforms to
.St -p1003.1-2001 .
The
.Fl q
option is a non-standard
.Fx
extension which may not be available on other operating systems.
.Pp
This re-implementation tries to follow the PEP 8 style guide for Python code.
.Sh PORTABILITY
Tested OK under Windows.
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
command appeared in
.Ux Programmer's Workbench (PWB/UNIX) 1.0
in 1977, and was probably written by
.An Marc J. Rochkind
along with the rest of the Source Code Control System (SCCS).
.Pp
The
.Bx
version appeared in
.Bx 4.0
in October 1980 and was rewritten because SCCS was not licensed with
.At 32v .
.Pp
This re-implementation was made for the
.Lk https://github.com/HubTou/PNU PNU project
.Sh LICENSE
It is available under the 3-clause BSD license.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Hubert Tournier
.Pp
This manual page is based on the one written for
.Fx .
